 Sarah Chow       +1 (646) 854-2569     sarah@xtchow.com     github.com/xtchow     linkedin.com/in/xtchow TECHNICAL SKILLS
JavaScript (+ TypeScript) • Python • React (+ Redux, Next.js) • Node (+ Express) • Webpack • Vite • SQL (Postgres) • NoSQL (MongoDB) • GraphQL • jQuery • Bootstrap (+ Tailwind) • Chakra UI • Chai (+ Jasmine, Mocha, Jest, Cypress) • Docker (+ Kubernetes)
EXPERIENCE
Software Engineer — Poseidon | a cluster visualization and cost analysis tool developed under OSLabs 2022 - present
● Implemented server-side rendering with Next.js to optimize the app's responsiveness, user experience, and improve SEO.
● Conducted end-to-end testing with Cypress, ensuring consistent delivery of feature requirements and objectives.
● Utilized TypeScript’s type safety features to reduce runtime errors and promote code maintainability throughout development.
● Leveraged Docker to ensure consistent performance of interdependent apps by isolating their environments and enabling flexible
scaling processes; this reduced deployment time and minimized the risk of conflicts and errors.
● Streamlined container deployments with Kubernetes to ensure efficient integration with an existing CI/CD pipeline and maintain
effective management of the containerized infrastructure, resulting in enhanced performance and cost efficiency.
● Simplified UI design with Tailwind's composable approach to build a style system, enhancing the presentation of functionalities.
OPEN SOURCE CONTRIBUTIONS
Frontend Software Engineer — Umpire | a film endorsement app for companions 2023
● Employed PostgreSQL as the primary data store, to provide efficient and dependable data management, leading to enhanced app reliability, and accelerated data insights through faster query production.
● Developed maintainable applications using Redux Toolkit, resulting in improved development workflow.
● Configured Webpack to bundle and optimize app assets, preprocess dependencies, and transpiled code with Babel for robust
cross-browser compatibility, unlocking the full potential of modern development features.
● Expanded comprehensive and reliable test suites using Jest, increasing code quality and improving development workflow.
● Integrated an external database API to leverage its extensive collection of movie data and metadata to provide users with rich and
dynamic content, which resulted in an engaging user experience and improved application functionality.
Backend Software Engineer — PaperPrompts 2.0 | an iteration of a flash cards app 2022
● Improved session management using Express Session middleware, which provided scalable and secure user authentication.
● Optimized data exchange with Axios’ promise-based API, resulting in better application performance, the ability to handle multiple
requests at once, and allowing for the creation of interceptors.
● Engineered a secure and user-friendly authentication system by integrating Google OAuth, allowing a seamless user experience and
improved security measures to protect sensitive user information.
● Incorporated Redux into an existing codebase to manage application state and improve code maintainability while creating custom
middleware to extend functionality which contributed scalability with refined performance.
Backend Developer — Off My Couch | an event finder web app 2021
● Utilized Vite's responsive hot module reload to dynamically update the interface in real-time based on user interactions, ensuring a swift browsing experience on any device, improving engagement and satisfaction.
● Designed and developed with Express 4.0, 10+ RESTful API endpoints that enabled smooth communication between the front and back-end components, resulting in a significant improvement in the application's scalability and performance.
● Improved application performance by implementing React Router, optimizing page loading speeds and overall navigation.
● Revamped the site's styling architecture using Sass' nesting feature which simplified code structure, produced maintainable style
modules, and led to faster site performance through transpiled and minified CSS.
● Developed visually appealing web interfaces using Bootstrap, ensuring cross-browser compatibility for mobile-first layouts.
Full Stack Developer — Comets | a social media web app 2020
● Created dynamic UIs using React, contributing to codebase modularity, increased user engagement, and overall satisfaction.
● Implemented a NoSQL database to handle large amounts of unstructured data and provide flexible schema design, ensuring that the
system is scalable and can handle future growth and increased demand.
● Established a robust web-based application with Node, resulting in efficient data processing for high-traffic.
● Employed the Twitter API to display real-time trending topics and hashtags within the social media web app, providing users with
up-to-the-minute information and insights into the latest social media trends.
EDUCATION
Resident — Codesmith | an advanced software engineering immersive program 2022 Houston Community College | Major in Computer Science
INTERESTS
      Chess • Piano • Taekwondo • Weightlifting • Stationery
